{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c79525;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Raina Wan\
CS 106b\
\
Perfect Numbers\
---------------\
\

\f1\b Q1. Roughly how long did it take your computer to do the search? How many perfect numbers were found and what were they?
\f0\b0 \
A1. It took about 01.85 seconds to run the main.cpp program. Four perfect numbers were found: 6, 28, 496, and 8128.\
\

\f1\b Q2. Make a table of the timing results for `findPerfects` that you observed. (old-school table of text rows and columns is just fine)
\f0\b0 \
A2.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 findPerfects size\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 500\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 10000\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 200000\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 400000\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Run Time\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 0.037 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 0.081 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 25.156 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 100.529 sec\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b Q3. Does it take the same amount of work to compute `isPerfect` on the number 10 as it does on the number 1000? Why or why not? Does it take the same amount of work for `findPerfects` to search the range of numbers from 1-1000 as it does to search the numbers from 1000-2000? Why or why not?
\f0\b0 \
A3. \
	It takes more work to compute the number 1000 in \'91isPerfect\'92 as opposed to the number 10. With a larger number, there are more iterations to scan through to find divisors. In this case, \'91divisorSum\'92 will iterate through all the divisors of 10 only 10 times, whereas it will loop through the same function 1000 times for the input 1000.\
	It will take the same amount of time to search from 1-1000 and 1000-2000 within the \'91findPerfects\'92 function. The range between both parameters are the same, so the number of iterations will also be the same, 1000.\
\
\

\f1\b Q4. Extrapolate from the data you gathered and make a prediction: how long will it take `findPerfects` to reach the fifth perfect number?
\f0\b0 \
A4. I predict that the fifth perfect number will be take around 300 seconds.\
\

\f1\b Q5. Do any of the tests still pass even with this broken function? Why or why not?
\f0\b0 \
A5. Three of the tests still pass. It is still true that 12 and 98765 are not perfect because their divisorSum does not equate to their value. However, input 1 fails because while it is its divisorSum, it doesn\'92t equal to 0. 6 does not pass the test case because the total starts at one. Thus, the divisorSum ends up being 7 instead of 6, and returns a false output.\
\

\f1\b Q6. Explain your testing strategy for `smarterSum` and how you chose your specific test cases that lead you to be confident the function is working correctly.
\f0\b0 \
A6. I wrote down the perfect sum values to figure out a pattern and algorithm before coding. I noticed that every perfect sum, excluding one, multiplied by another perfect sum equals to the input. For instance, the perfect sums of 28 are 1, 2, 4, 7, and 14. 2*14  and 4*7 both equal to 28. Thus, I only have to iterate through sqrt(28) times to find three perfect sums, and the corresponding sum is simply 28 / 2. One edge case was how I handled 1s and 0s. I created a conditional statement at the beginning, setting the total to 0 if the input was 1, and 1 if the input was anything else. I first tested perfect numbers 6 and 28 to make sure they worked. Then I tested non perfect numbers to ensure that they would not return true.\
\

\f1\b Q7. Record your timing results for `findPerfectsSmarter` into a table.
\f0\b0 \
A7. \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 findPerfects size\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 37500\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 75000\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 150000\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 300000\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx1728
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx3456
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5184
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx6912
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Run Time\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 0.911 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3.555 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 14.166 sec\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 56.839 sec\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b Q8. Make a prediction: how long will `findPerfectsSmarter` take to reach the fifth perfect number?
\f0\b0 \
A8. I predict that it will take 250 seconds to reach the fifth perfect number\
\

\f1\b Q9. Explain how you chose your specific test cases and why they lead you to be confident `findNthPerfectEuclid` is working correctly.
\f0\b0 \
A9. I tested the first four perfect numbers and made sure they were all correct. Additionally, I made sure valid inputs did not return invalid perfect numbers.\
\
\
\
Soundex\
-------\
\

\f1\b Q10. What is the Soundex code for "Angelou"? What is the code for your own surname?
\f0\b0 \
A10. The code for \'93Angelou\'94 is A524. My surname, Wan, has the code W500.\
\

\f1\b Q11. Before writing any code, brainstorm your plan of attack and sketch how you might decompose the work into smaller tasks. Briefly describe your decomposition strategy.
\f0\b0 \
A11. \
1. Extra letters only: iterate through string and check if uppercase letter is between ASCII values 65-90. Remove invalid characters\
2. Create grid with digit as an integer and letters as a vector of strings.\
3. Iterate through current string with two pointers, starting at index 0 and 1 (edge case length less than 1). If duplicate characters, remove right pointer char and move forward until characters are not repeating.\
4. Replace first digit with first uppercase char from input string.\
5. Iterate through current string and  zeros.\
6. Check length of string using while loop. If less than 4, add zeros. If greater than 4, only return string from characters 0-3.\
\

\f1\b Q12. Think about one or more examples of a class of names that the Soundex system might not work well for. Explain what this class of names is and why the system might incorrectly group them or mis-categorize one of the names.\

\f0\b0 \
A12. A distributive harm is the equality of outcome. The same opportunities given to people may not be necessarily be fair because people start off from different starting points. Representational harms include whether one can be recognized by their culture and whether they can express themselves freely. The Soundex system only covers 256 symbols, eliminating many other symbols not found in other languages. \
\

\f1\b Q13. Suppose you are a software engineer working for the U.S. government. You have been tasked with implementing a system that collects names as part of the Census survey and analyzes these names using a phonetic algorithm. Your boss suggests using Soundex and notes that the algorithm is only expected to work for ASCII-encoded strings, since supporting Unicode would require extra work and time. What would your response be and why? What representational harms might result from building a system that exclusively uses Soundex and/or ASCII?\

\f0\b0 \
A13. The ASCII-encoded strings are exclusive to a set of characters from the English alphabet. Creating a Soundex system from this table promotes discrimination of culture and identity. Everyone has a unique background: a story where their name is derived from. Therefore, building a system solely from ASCII strips people from their inclusion in the phonetic algorithm. While using Unicode will take extra work and time, the respect that U.S. citizens will receive makes it worth it.\
\
\
}